About Git 

  1. Git is an open source distibuted version control system.
  2. Desgin to handle everything from small  to very large projects with speed and efficiency.
  3. It outclasses SCM tools (Software configration Management) like Subversion , CVS, perforce, and clearCase with features like chep local branching, convenient staging areas and multiple workflows


other version control system (VCS) similar to GIT 

  1. Distributed VCS: 
      1. Mercurial 
      2. Bazaar
      3. Darcs

  2. Cloud based VCS:
      1. Bitbucket
      2. GitHub
      3. GitLab



What is version control 
    History Tracking 
    collaborative history tracking 

    1. Git is fast and modern implementation of version comtrol 
    2. Git provides a history of content changes 
    3. Fit facilites collaborative changes to file
    4. Git is easy to use for any type of knowledge worker


What is Git 
   1. Distributed so that connectivity dosen't block work 
   2. Easy so that learning its commands can happen progressively.
    
    Basic commands of git 
         git init   --- intialization on git in projects
         git add .  --- add all changes in file into git 
         git commit -m "intial commet"  --- basic commit of chages 

    Distributed Git 
        Team centric so that collaboration happens naturally

    git checkout <Branch Name>    --- Change the branch 
    git commit -m "changes in file" --- commit the code in differnt branch
    git push     --- push the code in respective branch
    git push  origin <Branch Name>  --- push code on metion in branch
    git pull  --- pull the code from respective branch 
    git merge <branch Name> --- merge the code from mention branch into current branch


Advanced git 
     1. Customizable Git 
          1. Flexible so that it fits your need insted of the other way around 
           
           git add -p myreport.markdown 
           git commit -m "added latest statics"
           git log --grapgh --decorate --addrev- commit --all pretty=online 
      